[RTC-349] Add VPS deployment tutorial (#34)
jellyfish-dev/jellyfish-docs: docs/deploying/vps.md

# Cloud VPS with `cloud-init`

> We're encouraging you to use VPS as the most configurable option. In this example, we will show you how to set up Jellyfish media server on [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud) but you can use these instructions to run Jellyfish on VPS from any provider that supports [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/) setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're encouraging you to use VPS as the most customizable option. In this example, we will show you how to set up Jellyfish media server on [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud) but you can use these instructions to run Jellyfish on VPS from any provider that supports [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/) setup.
```

We prepared a template *cloud-config* that will prepare your server and start a chosen version of jellyfish:

<details>
  <summary>cloud-config.yaml</summary>

  ```
  #cloud-config
  users:
    - name: jellyfish
      groups: docker
      sudo: null
      shell: /bin/false
      no_create_home: true
  ssh_pwauth: false
  disable_root_opts: no-port-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-X11-forwarding
  apt:
    sources:
      docker.list:
        source: "deb [arch=amd64,arm64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu jammy stable"
        keyid: 9DC858229FC7DD38854AE2D88D81803C0EBFCD88
  packages:
    - ufw
    - fail2ban
    - gzip
    - containerd.io
    - docker-ce
    - docker-ce-cli
  write_files:
    - path: /opt/jellyfish/env-file
      defer: true
      owner: jellyfish:jellyfish
  runcmd:
    - export JELLYFISH_VERSION=0.1.0-ed317b
    - docker pull ghcr.io/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish:$JELLYFISH_VERSION
    - systemctl enable fail2ban
    - ufw default deny outgoing
    - ufw default deny incoming
    - ufw default deny routed
    - ufw allow in ssh
    - ufw allow out https
    - ufw allow out domain
    - ufw allow in 80/tcp
    - ufw allow in 50000:50050/udp

>     - ufw allow out from any port 50000:50050 proto udp to any

Reviewer: Perhaphs we should allow more than 50 upd ports in production?

    - ufw enable
    - |
      cat << EOF > /opt/jellyfish/env-file
      SERVER_API_TOKEN=test_token
      SECRET_KEY_BASE=$(openssl rand -base64 32)
      INTEGRATED_TURN_IP=$(ip route get 1.0.0.0 | sed -n 's/^.*src \([0-9.]*\) .*$/\1/p')
      JELLYFISH_ADDRESS=$(ip route get 1.0.0.0 | sed -n 's/^.*src \([0-9.]*\) .*$/\1/p')
      INTEGRATED_TURN_PORT_RANGE=50000-50050

>       CHECK_ORIGIN=false

Reviewer: Does disabling `CHECK_ORIGIN` increase risk of some kind of attack?
If I understand correctly, the reverse proxy makes this flag have no effect.
But there is no reverse proxy in this setup

        --restart unless-stopped \
        -p 50000-50050:50000-50050/udp \
        -p 80:5002 \
        --env-file /opt/jellyfish/env-file \
        -v /opt/jellyfish/jellyfish_output:/app/jellyfish_output \
        ghcr.io/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish:$JELLYFISH_VERSION",
      ]
  ```
</details>

You'll need to take care of two lines in that template:

- `- export JELLYFISH_VERSION=0.1.0-ed317b`. Change value if you want to deploy different version of jellyfish. You can find list of available versions in [our package repository](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/pkgs/container/jellyfish)

- `SERVER_API_TOKEN=test_token` Server API token is a token you'll need to connect to Jellyfish via API or SDK. Write here a chosen secret value you're going to remember later.

Copy the file and change up those two variables. You're going to need a content of the file in the next section.

### Other tools we'll install with _cloud-init_

As you might noticed we've chosen some packages to be installed:

- `ufw` - Uncomplicated Firewall. We'll need it to allow or block trafic on specific ports [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW).

> - fail2ban - Tool to block traffic recognized as unauthorized [https://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page](https://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fail2ban` - Tool to block traffic recognized as unauthorized [https://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page](https://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page)
```

- `gzip` - Compression Utility [https://www.gzip.org/](https://www.gzip.org/)
- `containerd.io`, `docker-ce`, `docker-ce-cli` - Docker and Docker related libraries.

## Setting up Hetzner cloud VPS with _cloud-config_

Now, we're going to use a content of the file you prepared in Hetzner cloud VPS creating form. To do it scroll to the _Cloud config_ section of the form and paste there a content of your _cloud-config.yaml_ file.

![Hetzner Cloud - placing cloud-config](/img/vps-2.png)

:::caution
_cloud-init_ will recognize the file as it's configuration only if the file starts with that comment:
```
#cloud-config
...
```
So be carefull while copying.
:::

> That's it. You can click 'Create & Buy' an a server will start to configurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it. You can click 'Create & Buy' and the server will start to configure.
```

## Checking _cloud-init_ status

Configuring your server will takes some time, but it's available for you almost immediately after creation. You can log into server using _ssh_:
```
ssh root@<VPS_IP>
```
then, in server's terminal you can check current status of cloud init:

```bash
cloud-init status
```

Posible responses are `running`, `error` and `done`. The first one informs you that _cloud-init_ is still configuring you server. Second one means that something whent wrong. You can find logs from the _cloud-init_ run in `/var/log/cloud-init-output.log` file. `done` means that your jellyfish server is ready to be used.

> 

Reviewer: I think you could mention at the end that we can use Jellyfish Dashboard (e.g. the online hosted version) to check if the Jellyfish is working correctly.

Author: I've added additional paragraph about it

# Cloud VPS with cloud-init

We're encouraging you to use VPS as the most customizable option. In this example, we will show you how to set up a Jellyfish media server on [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud) but you can use these instructions to run Jellyfish on VPS from any provider that supports [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/) setup.

We're presenting a configuration which uses SSL protocol, as we are aware of the consequences of using unencrypted connections. That means you're going to need a registered domain but getting one is not a big deal nowadays.

## 1. Creating primary IP

We divided the process of creating VPS into two parts (creating IP and configuring server) because before configuring your server with _cloud-init_ using our script, you should have registered your domain to point at the particular IP address.

Let's start with it. In Hetzner's project site go to the section ___Primary IPs___ then click ___Create Primary IP___ button. Choose a data center location for your server and select __IPv4__ protocol. You can also name that IP if you'd like.

## 2. Registering Domain

> We'll not suggest you use a specific domain provider, maybe you've got one chosen so we'll describe this step without details that may be different among providers. If you'd like, [you can use Hetzner as well to register a domain](https://www.hetzner.com/domainregistration).

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we use `to` here?
```suggestion
We'll not suggest you to use a specific domain provider.
Maybe you've got one chosen so we'll describe this step without details that may be different among providers.
If you'd like, [you can use Hetzner as well to register a domain](https://www.hetzner.com/domainregistration).
```
